          Princess of Mars ch26 pt5          

As soon as the last thoat was unloaded Tars Tarkas gave the command
to advance, and in three parties we crept upon the Zodangan camp
from the north, the south and the east.

About a mile from the main camp we encountered their outposts and,
as had been prearranged, accepted this as the signal to charge.
With wild, ferocious cries and amidst the nasty squealing of
battle enraged thoats we bore down upon the Zodangans.

We did not catch them napping, but found a well entrenched battle
line confronting us.  Time after time we were repulsed until, toward
noon, I began to fear for the result of the battle.

The Zodangans numbered nearly a million fighting men, gathered
from pole to pole, wherever stretched their ribbon like waterways,
while pitted against them were less than a hundred thousand green
warriors.  The forces from Helium had not arrived, nor could we
receive any word from them.

Just at noon we heard heavy firing all along the line between the
Zodangans and the cities, and we knew then that our much needed
reinforcements had come.

Again Tars Tarkas ordered the charge, and once more the mighty
thoats bore their terrible riders against the ramparts of the enemy.
At the same moment the battle line of Helium surged over the
opposite breastworks of the Zodangans and in another moment they
were being crushed as between two millstones.  Nobly they fought,
but in vain.

The plain before the city became a veritable shambles ere the last
Zodangan surrendered, but finally the carnage ceased, the prisoners
were marched back to Helium, and we entered the greater citys
gates, a huge triumphal procession of conquering heroes.

The broad avenues were lined with women and children, among which
were the few men whose duties necessitated that they remain within
the city during the battle.  We were greeted with an endless round
of applause and showered with ornaments of gold, platinum, silver,
and precious jewels.          end of pt5