          Princess of Mars ch27 pt4            It is the end.

He stooped and kissed the women of his family, and laid his strong
hand upon the shoulders of the men.

As I turned sadly from him my eyes fell upon Dejah Thoris.  Her head
was drooping upon her breast, to all appearances she was lifeless.
With a cry I sprang to her and raised her in my arms.

Her eyes opened and looked into mine.

Kiss me, John Carter, she murmured.  I love you.  I love you.
It is cruel that we must be torn apart who were just starting upon
a life of love and happiness.

As I pressed her dear lips to mine the old feeling of unconquerable
power and authority rose in me.  The fighting blood of Virginia
sprang to life in my veins.

It shall not be, my princess, I cried.  There is, there must be
some way, and John Carter, who has fought his way through a strange
world for love of you, will find it.

And with my words there crept above the threshold of my conscious
mind a series of nine long forgotten sounds.  Like a flash of
lightning in the darkness their full purport dawned upon me the
key to the three great doors of the atmosphere plant.

Turning suddenly toward Tardos Mors as I still clasped my dying love
to my breast I cried.

A flier, Jeddak.  Quick.  Order your swiftest flier to the palace
top.  I can save Barsoom yet.

He did not wait to question, but in an instant a guard was racing
to the nearest dock and though the air was thin and almost gone at
the rooftop they managed to launch the fastest one man, air scout
machine that the skill of Barsoom had ever produced.

Kissing Dejah Thoris a dozen times and commanding Woola, who would
have followed me, to remain and guard her, I bounded with my old
agility and strength to the high ramparts of the palace, and in
another moment I was headed toward the goal of the hopes of all
Barsoom.

I had to fly low to get sufficient air to breathe, but I took a
straight course across an old sea bottom and so had to rise only
a few feet above the ground.          end of pt4