          Princess of Mars ch25 pt2            These two stopped at the
foot of the throne, facing Than Kosis.  When the balance of the
procession had entered and assumed their stations Than Kosis
addressed the couple standing before him.  I could not hear his
words, but presently two officers advanced and removed the scarlet
robe from one of the figures, and I saw that Kantos Kan had failed
in his mission, for it was Sab Than, Prince of Zodanga, who stood
revealed before me.

Than Kosis now took a set of the ornaments from one of the salvers
and placed one of the collars of gold about his sons neck,
springing the padlock fast.  After a few more words addressed to
Sab Than he turned to the other figure, from which the officers
now removed the enshrouding silks, disclosing to my now
comprehending view Dejah Thoris, Princess of Helium.

The object of the ceremony was clear to me, in another moment Dejah
Thoris would be joined forever to the Prince of Zodanga.  It was an
impressive and beautiful ceremony, I presume, but to me it seemed
the most fiendish sight I had ever witnessed, and as the ornaments
were adjusted upon her beautiful figure and her collar of gold swung
open in the hands of Than Kosis I raised my long sword above my
head, and, with the heavy hilt, I shattered the glass of the great
window and sprang into the midst of the astonished assemblage.  With
a bound I was on the steps of the platform beside Than Kosis, and as
he stood riveted with surprise I brought my long sword down upon the
golden chain that would have bound Dejah Thoris to another.

In an instant all was confusion, a thousand drawn swords menaced me
from every quarter, and Sab Than sprang upon me with a jeweled
dagger he had drawn from his nuptial ornaments.  I could have killed
him as easily as I might a fly, but the age old custom of Barsoom
stayed my hand, and grasping his wrist as the dagger flew toward my
heart I held him as though in a vise and with my long sword pointed
to the far end of the hall.          end of pt2