          Princess of Mars ch24 pt2            I
think I have learned that there is such a thing as friendship, my
friend.

He said no more, nor was there opportunity, for the Warhoons were
closing in about us, and together we fought, shoulder to shoulder,
during all that long, hot afternoon, until the tide of battle turned
and the remnant of the fierce Warhoon horde fell back upon their
thoats, and fled into the gathering darkness.

Ten thousand men had been engaged in that titanic struggle, and upon
the field of battle lay three thousand dead.  Neither side asked or
gave quarter, nor did they attempt to take prisoners.

On our return to the city after the battle we had gone directly to
Tars Tarkas quarters, where I was left alone while the chieftain
attended the customary council which immediately follows an
engagement.

As I sat awaiting the return of the green warrior I heard something
move in an adjoining apartment, and as I glanced up there rushed
suddenly upon me a huge and hideous creature which bore me backward
upon the pile of silks and furs upon which I had been reclining.  It
was Woola faithful, loving Woola.  He had found his way back to
Thark and, as Tars Tarkas later told me, had gone immediately to my
former quarters where he had taken up his pathetic and seemingly
hopeless watch for my return.

Tal Hajus knows that you are here, John Carter, said Tars Tarkas,
on his return from the jeddaks quarters, Sarkoja saw and
recognized you as we were returning.  Tal Hajus has ordered me to
bring you before him tonight.  I have ten thoats, John Carter, you
may take your choice from among them, and I will accompany you to
the nearest waterway that leads to Helium.  Tars Tarkas may be a
cruel green warrior, but he can be a friend as well.  Come, we
must start.

And when you return, Tars Tarkas? I asked.

The wild calots, possibly, or worse, he replied.  Unless I should
chance to have the opportunity I have so long waited of battling
with Tal Hajus.          end of pt2