          Princess of Mars ch25 pt5          

The sounds of heavy firing, mingled with shouts and cries, came to
us from the citys streets, and Tars Tarkas hastened away to direct
the fighting without.  Kantos Kan accompanied him to act as guide,
the green warriors commencing a thorough search of the palace for
other Zodangans and for loot, and Dejah Thoris and I were left
alone.

She had sunk into one of the golden thrones, and as I turned to her
she greeted me with a wan smile.

Was there ever such a man. she exclaimed.  I know that Barsoom
has never before seen your like.  Can it be that all Earth men are
as you?  Alone, a stranger, hunted, threatened, persecuted, you have
done in a few short months what in all the past ages of Barsoom no
man has ever done, joined together the wild hordes of the sea
bottoms and brought them to fight as allies of a red Martian
people.

The answer is easy, Dejah Thoris, I replied smiling.  It was not
I who did it, it was love, love for Dejah Thoris, a power that would
work greater miracles than this you have seen.

A pretty flush overspread her face and she answered,

You may say that now, John Carter, and I may listen, for I
am free.

And more still I have to say, ere it is again too late, I
returned.  I have done many strange things in my life, many things
that wiser men would not have dared, but never in my wildest fancies
have I dreamed of winning a Dejah Thoris for myself for never had I
dreamed that in all the universe dwelt such a woman as the Princess
of Helium.  That you are a princess does not abash me, but that you
are you is enough to make me doubt my sanity as I ask you, my
princess, to be mine.

He does not need to be abashed who so well knew the answer to his
plea before the plea were made, she replied, rising and placing her
dear hands upon my shoulders, and so I took her in my arms and
kissed her.

And thus in the midst of a city of wild conflict, filled with the
alarms of war, with death and destruction reaping their terrible
harvest around her, did Dejah Thoris, Princess of Helium, true
daughter of Mars, the God of War, promise herself in marriage to
John Carter, Gentleman of Virginia.          end of pt5