          Princess of Mars ch28 pt1          CHAPTER XXVIII

AT THE ARIZONA CAVE

It was dark when I opened my eyes again.  Strange, stiff garments
were upon my body, garments that cracked and powdered away from me
as I rose to a sitting posture.

I felt myself over from head to foot and from head to foot I was
clothed, though when I fell unconscious at the little doorway I had
been naked.  Before me was a small patch of moonlit sky which showed
through a ragged aperture.

As my hands passed over my body they came in contact with pockets
and in one of these a small parcel of matches wrapped in oiled
paper.  One of these matches I struck, and its dim flame lighted
up what appeared to be a huge cave, toward the back of which I
discovered a strange, still figure huddled over a tiny bench.  As
I approached it I saw that it was the dead and mummified remains
of a little old woman with long black hair, and the thing it
leaned over was a small charcoal burner upon which rested a round
copper vessel containing a small quantity of greenish powder.

Behind her, depending from the roof upon rawhide thongs, and
stretching entirely across the cave, was a row of human skeletons.
From the thong which held them stretched another to the dead hand
of the little old woman, as I touched the cord the skeletons swung
to the motion with a noise as of the rustling of dry leaves.

It was a most grotesque and horrid tableau and I hastened out
into the fresh air, glad to escape from so gruesome a place.

The sight that met my eyes as I stepped out upon a small ledge which
ran before the entrance of the cave filled me with consternation.

A new heaven and a new landscape met my gaze.  The silvered
mountains in the distance, the almost stationary moon hanging in
the sky, the cacti studded valley below me were not of Mars.  I
could scarcely believe my eyes, but the truth slowly forced itself
upon me I was looking upon Arizona from the same ledge from which
ten years before I had gazed with longing upon Mars.          end of pt1