          Princess of Mars ch24 pt3          

We will stay, Tars Tarkas, and see Tal Hajus tonight.  You shall
not sacrifice yourself, and it may be that tonight you can have the
chance you wait.

He objected strenuously, saying that Tal Hajus often flew into wild
fits of passion at the mere thought of the blow I had dealt him, and
that if ever he laid his hands upon me I would be subjected to the
most horrible tortures.

While we were eating I repeated to Tars Tarkas the story which Sola
had told me that night upon the sea bottom during the march to
Thark.

He said but little, but the great muscles of his face worked in
passion and in agony at recollection of the horrors which had been
heaped upon the only thing he had ever loved in all his cold, cruel,
terrible existence.

He no longer demurred when I suggested that we go before Tal Hajus,
only saying that he would like to speak to Sarkoja first.  At his
request I accompanied him to her quarters, and the look of venomous
hatred she cast upon me was almost adequate recompense for any
future misfortunes this accidental return to Thark might bring me.

Sarkoja, said Tars Tarkas, forty years ago you were instrumental
in bringing about the torture and death of a woman named Gozava.
I have just discovered that the warrior who loved that woman has
learned of your part in the transaction.  He may not kill you,
Sarkoja, it is not our custom, but there is nothing to prevent him
tying one end of a strap about your neck and the other end to a wild
thoat, merely to test your fitness to survive and help perpetuate
our race.  Having heard that he would do this on the morrow, I
thought it only right to warn you, for I am a just man.  The river
Iss is but a short pilgrimage, Sarkoja.  Come, John Carter.

The next morning Sarkoja was gone, nor was she ever seen after.

In silence we hastened to the jeddaks palace, where we were
immediately admitted to his presence, in fact, he could scarcely
wait to see me and was standing erect upon his platform glowering
at the entrance as I came in.          end of pt3