          Princess of Mars ch26 pt3          

There was an extremely pathetic side to the surrender of these
mighty fliers, the result of an age old custom which demanded that
surrender should be signalized by the voluntary plunging to earth of
the commander of the vanquished vessel.  One after another the brave
fellows, holding their colors high above their heads, leaped from
the towering bows of their mighty craft to an awful death.

Not until the commander of the entire fleet took the fearful plunge,
thus indicating the surrender of the remaining vessels, did the
fighting cease, and the useless sacrifice of brave men come to an
end.

We now signaled the flagship of Heliums navy to approach, and
when she was within hailing distance I called out that we had the
Princess Dejah Thoris on board, and that we wished to transfer her
to the flagship that she might be taken immediately to the city.

As the full import of my announcement bore in upon them a great cry
arose from the decks of the flagship, and a moment later the colors
of the Princess of Helium broke from a hundred points upon her upper
works.  When the other vessels of the squadron caught the meaning of
the signals flashed them they took up the wild acclaim and unfurled
her colors in the gleaming sunlight.

The flagship bore down upon us, and as she swung gracefully to and
touched our side a dozen officers sprang upon our decks.  As their
astonished gaze fell upon the hundreds of green warriors, who now
came forth from the fighting shelters, they stopped aghast, but at
sight of Kantos Kan, who advanced to meet them, they came forward,
crowding about him.

Dejah Thoris and I then advanced, and they had no eyes for other
than her.  She received them gracefully, calling each by name, for
they were men high in the esteem and service of her grandfather,
and she knew them well.

Lay your hands upon the shoulder of John Carter, she said to them,
turning toward me, the man to whom Helium owes her princess as well
as her victory today.          end of pt3