        *           *           *

An answer had arrived to Holmes's telegram before our Surrey officer
had returned.  Holmes read it and was about to place it in his notebook
when he caught a glimpse of my expectant face. He tossed it across with
a laugh.

"We are moving in exalted circles," said he.

The telegram was a list of names and addresses:

Lord Harringby, The Dingle; Sir George Ffolliott, Oxshott Towers; Mr.
Hynes Hynes, J.P., Purdley Place; Mr. James Baker Williams, Forton Old
Hall; Mr. Henderson, High Gable; Rev. Joshua Stone, Nether Walsling.

"This is a very obvious way of limiting our field of operations," said
Holmes.  "No doubt Baynes, with his methodical mind, has already
adopted some similar plan."

"I don't quite understand."

"Well, my dear fellow, we have already arrived at the conclusion that
the message received by Garcia at dinner was an appointment or an
assignation.  Now, if the obvious reading of it is correct, and in
order to keep the tryst one has to ascend a main stair and seek the
seventh door in a corridor, it is perfectly clear that the house is a
very large one.  It is equally certain that this house cannot be more
than a mile or two from Oxshott, since Garcia was walking in that
direction and hoped, according to my reading of the facts, to be back
in Wisteria Lodge in time to avail himself of an alibi, which would
only be valid up to one o'clock.  As the number of large houses close
to Oxshott must be limited, I adopted the obvious method of sending to
the agents mentioned by Scott Eccles and obtaining a list of them.
Here they are in this telegram, and the other end of our tangled skein
must lie among them."

        *           *           *

It was nearly six o'clock before we found ourselves in the pretty
Surrey village of Esher, with Inspector Baynes as our companion.

Holmes and I had taken things for the night, and found comfortable
quarters at the Bull.  Finally we set out in the company of the
detective on our visit to Wisteria Lodge.  It was a cold, dark March
evening, with a sharp wind and a fine rain beating upon our faces, a
fit setting for the wild common over which our road passed and the
tragic goal to which it led us.




2.  The Tiger of San Pedro


A cold and melancholy walk of a couple of miles brought us to a high
wooden gate, which opened into a gloomy avenue of chestnuts. The curved
and shadowed drive led us to a low, dark house, pitch-black against a
slate-coloured sky. From the front window upon the left of the door
there peeped a glimmer of a feeble light.

"There's a constable in possession," said Baynes.  "I'll knock at the
window."  He stepped across the grass plot and tapped with his hand on
the pane.  Through the fogged glass I dimly saw a man spring up from a
chair beside the fire, and heard a sharp cry from within the room.  An
instant later a white-faced, hard-breathing policeman had opened the
door, the candle wavering in his trembling hand.

"What's the matter, Walters?" asked Baynes sharply.

The man mopped his forehead with his handkerchief and gave a long sigh
of relief.

"I am glad you have come, sir.  It has been a long evening, and I don't
think my nerve is as good as it was."

"Your nerve, Walters?  I should not have thought you had a nerve in
your body."

"Well, sir, it's this lonely, silent house and the queer thing in the
kitchen.  Then when you tapped at the window I thought it had come
again."

"That what had come again?"

"The devil, sir, for all I know.  It was at the window."

"What was at the window, and when?"

"It was just about two hours ago.  The light was just fading.  I was
sitting reading in the chair.  I don't know what made me look up, but
there was a face looking in at me through the lower pane. Lord, sir,
what a face it was!  I'll see it in my dreams."

"Tut, tut, Walters.  This is not talk for a police-constable."

"I know, sir, I know; but it shook me, sir, and there's no use to deny
it.  It wasn't black, sir, nor was it white, nor any colour that I know
but a kind of queer shade like clay with a splash of milk in it.  Then
there was the size of it--it was twice yours, sir.  And the look of
it--the great staring goggle eyes, and the line of white teeth like a
hungry beast.  I tell you, sir, I couldn't move a finger, nor get my
breath, till it whisked away and was gone.  Out I ran and through the
shrubbery, but thank God there was no one there."

"If I didn't know you were a good man, Walters, I should put a black
mark against you for this.  If it were the devil himself a constable on
duty should never thank God that he could not lay his hands upon him.
I suppose the whole thing is not a vision and a touch of nerves?"

"That, at least, is very easily settled," said Holmes, lighting his
little pocket lantern.  "Yes," he reported, after a short examination
of the grass bed, "a number twelve shoe, I should say.  If he was all
on the same scale as his foot he must certainly have been a giant."

"What became of him?"

"He seems to have broken through the shrubbery and made for the road."

"Well," said the inspector with a grave and thoughtful face, "whoever
he may have been, and whatever he may have wanted, he's gone for the
present, and we have more immediate things to attend to.  Now, Mr.
Holmes, with your permission, I will show you round the house."

The various bedrooms and sitting-rooms had yielded nothing to a careful
search.  Apparently the tenants had brought little or nothing with
them, and all the furniture down to the smallest details had been taken
over with the house.  A good deal of clothing with the stamp of Marx
and Co., High Holborn, had been left behind.  Telegraphic inquiries had
been already made which showed that Marx knew nothing of his customer
save that he was a good payer.  Odds and ends, some pipes, a few
novels, two of them in Spanish, and old-fashioned pinfire revolver, and
a guitar were among the personal property.

"Nothing in all this," said Baynes, stalking, candle in hand, from room
to room.  "But now, Mr. Holmes, I invite your attention to the kitchen."

