"What!  You were after Henderson?"

"Why, Mr. Holmes, when you were crawling in the shrubbery at High Gable
I was up one of the trees in the plantation and saw you down below.  It
was just who would get his evidence first."

"Then why did you arrest the mulatto?"

Baynes chuckled.

"I was sure Henderson, as he calls himself, felt that he was suspected,
and that he would lie low and make no move so long as he thought he was
in any danger.  I arrested the wrong man to make him believe that our
eyes were off him.  I knew he would be likely to clear off then and
give us a chance of getting at Miss Burnet."

Holmes laid his hand upon the inspector's shoulder.

"You will rise high in your profession.  You have instinct and
intuition," said he.

Baynes flushed with pleasure.

"I've had a plain-clothes man waiting at the station all the week.
Wherever the High Gable folk go he will keep them in sight.  But he
must have been hard put to it when Miss Burnet broke away.  However,
your man picked her up, and it all ends well.  We can't arrest without
her evidence, that is clear, so the sooner we get a statement the
better."

"Every minute she gets stronger," said Holmes, glancing at the
governess.  "But tell me, Baynes, who is this man Henderson?"

"Henderson," the inspector answered, "is Don Murillo, once call the
Tiger of San Pedro."

The Tiger of San Pedro!  The whole history of the man came back to me
in a flash.  He had made his name as the most lewd and bloodthirsty
tyrant that had ever governed any country with a pretence to
civilization.  Strong, fearless, and energetic, he had sufficient
virtue to enable him to impose his odious vices upon a cowering people
for ten or twelve years.  His name was a terror through all Central
America.  At the end of that time there was a universal rising against
him.  But he was as cunning as he was cruel, and at the first whisper
of coming trouble he had secretly conveyed his treasures aboard a ship
which was manned by devoted adherents.  It was an empty palace which
was stormed by the insurgents next day.  The dictator, his two
children, his secretary, and his wealth had all escaped them. From that
moment he had vanished from the world, and his identity had been a
frequent subject for comment in the European press.

"Yes, sir, Don Murillo, the Tiger of San Pedro," said Baynes. "If you
look it up you will find that the San Pedro colours are green and
white, same as in the note, Mr. Holmes.  Henderson he called himself,
but I traced him back, Paris and Rome and Madrid to Barcelona, where
his ship came in in '86.  They've been looking for him all the time for
their revenge, but it is only now that they have begun to find him out."

"They discovered him a year ago," said Miss Burnet, who had sat up and
was now intently following the conversation.  "Once already his life
has been attempted, but some evil spirit shielded him.  Now, again, it
is the noble, chivalrous Garcia who has fallen, while the monster goes
safe.  But another will come, and yet another, until some day justice
will be done; that is as certain as the rise of to-morrow's sun."  Her
thin hands clenched, and her worn face blanched with the passion of her
hatred.

"But how come you into this matter, Miss Burnet?" asked Holmes. "How
can an English lady join in such a murderous affair?"

"I join in it because there is no other way in the world by which
justice can be gained.  What does the law of England care for the
rivers of blood shed years ago in San Pedro, or for the shipload of
treasure which this man has stolen?  To you they are like crimes
committed in some other planet.  But _we_ know.  We have learned the
truth in sorrow and in suffering.  To us there is no fiend in hell like
Juan Murillo, and no peace in life while his victims still cry for
vengeance."

"No doubt," said Holmes, "he was as you say. I have heard that he was
atrocious.  But how are you affected?"

"I will tell you it all. This villain's policy was to murder, on one
pretext or another, every man who showed such promise that he might in
time come to be a dangerous rival.  My husband--yes, my real name is
Signora Victor Durando--was the San Pedro minister in London.  He met
me and married me there.  A nobler man never lived upon earth.
Unhappily, Murillo heard of his excellence, recalled him on some
pretext, and had him shot.  With a premonition of his fate he had
refused to take me with him.  His estates were confiscated, and I was
left with a pittance and a broken heart.

"Then came the downfall of the tyrant.  He escaped as you have just
described.  But the many whose lives he had ruined, whose nearest and
dearest had suffered torture and death at his hands, would not let the
matter rest.  They banded themselves into a society which should never
be dissolved until the work was done. It was my part after we had
discovered in the transformed Henderson the fallen despot, to attach
myself to his household and keep the others in touch with his
movements.  This I was able to do by securing the position of governess
in his family.  He little knew that the woman who faced him at every
meal was the woman whose husband he had hurried at an hour's notice
into eternity.  I smiled on him, did my duty to his children, and bided
my time.  An attempt was made in Paris and failed.  We zig-zagged
swiftly here and there over Europe to throw off the pursuers and
finally returned to this house, which he had taken upon his first
arrival in England.

"But here also the ministers of justice were waiting.  Knowing that he
would return there, Garcia, who is the son of the former highest
dignitary in San Pedro, was waiting with two trusty companions of
humble station, all three fired with the same reasons for revenge. He
could do little during the day, for Murillo took every precaution and
never went out save with his satellite Lucas, or Lopez as he was known
in the days of his greatness.  At night, however, he slept alone, and
the avenger might find him.  On a certain evening, which had been
prearranged, I sent my friend final instructions, for the man was
forever on the alert and continually changed his room.  I was to see
that the doors were open and the signal of a green or white light in a
window which faced the drive was to give notice if all was safe or if
the attempt had better be postponed.

