"I suppose that you have no objection to my collaborating with you, Mr.
Baynes?"

"Highly honoured, sir, I am sure."

"You appear to have been very prompt and businesslike in all that you
have done.  Was there any clue, may I ask, as to the exact hour that
the man met his death?"

"He had been there since one o'clock.  There was rain about that time,
and his death had certainly been before the rain."

"But that is perfectly impossible, Mr. Baynes," cried our client. "His
voice is unmistakable.  I could swear to it that it was he who
addressed me in my bedroom at that very hour."

"Remarkable, but by no means impossible," said Holmes, smiling.

"You have a clue?" asked Gregson.

"On the face of it the case is not a very complex one, though it
certainly presents some novel and interesting features.  A further
knowledge of facts is necessary before I would venture to give a final
and definite opinion.  By the way, Mr. Baynes, did you find anything
remarkable besides this note in your examination of the house?"

The detective looked at my friend in a singular way.

"There were," said he, "one or two _very_ remarkable things. Perhaps
when I have finished at the police-station you would care to come out
and give me your opinion of them."

"I am entirely at your service," said Sherlock Holmes, ringing the
bell.  "You will show these gentlemen out, Mrs. Hudson, and kindly send
the boy with this telegram.  He is to pay a five-shilling reply."

We sat for some time in silence after our visitors had left. Holmes
smoked hard, with his browns drawn down over his keen eyes, and his
head thrust forward in the eager way characteristic of the man.

"Well, Watson," he asked, turning suddenly upon me, "what do you make
of it?"

"I can make nothing of this mystification of Scott Eccles."

"But the crime?"

"Well, taken with the disappearance of the man's companions, I should
say that they were in some way concerned in the murder and had fled
from justice."

"That is certainly a possible point of view.  On the face of it you
must admit, however, that it is very strange that his two servants
should have been in a conspiracy against him and should have attacked
him on the one night when he had a guest.  They had him alone at their
mercy every other night in the week."

"Then why did they fly?"

"Quite so.  Why did they fly?  There is a big fact.  Another big fact
is the remarkable experience of our client, Scott Eccles. Now, my dear
Watson, is it beyond the limits of human ingenuity to furnish an
explanation which would cover both of these big facts?  If it were one
which would also admit of the mysterious note with its very curious
phraseology, why, then it would be worth accepting as a temporary
hypothesis.  If the fresh facts which come to our knowledge all fit
themselves into the scheme, then our hypothesis may gradually become a
solution."

"But what is our hypothesis?"

Holmes leaned back in his chair with half-closed eyes.

"You must admit, my dear Watson, that the idea of a joke is impossible.
There were grave events afoot, as the sequel showed, and the coaxing of
Scott Eccles to Wisteria Lodge had some connection with them."

"But what possible connection?"

"Let us take it link by link.  There is, on the face of it, something
unnatural about this strange and sudden friendship between the young
Spaniard and Scott Eccles.  It was the former who forced the pace.  He
called upon Eccles at the other end of London on the very day after he
first met him, and he kept in close touch with him until he got him
down to Esher.  Now, what did he want with Eccles?  What could Eccles
supply?  I see no charm in the man.  He is not particularly
intelligent--not a man likely to be congenial to a quick-witted Latin.
Why, then, was he picked out from all the other people whom Garcia met
as particularly suited to his purpose?  Has he any one outstanding
quality?  I say that he has.  He is the very type of conventional
British respectability, and the very man as a witness to impress
another Briton.  You saw yourself how neither of the inspectors dreamed
of questioning his statement, extraordinary as it was."

"But what was he to witness?"

"Nothing, as things turned out, but everything had they gone another
way.  That is how I read the matter."

"I see, he might have proved an alibi."

"Exactly, my dear Watson; he might have proved an alibi.  We will
suppose, for argument's sake, that the household of Wisteria Lodge are
confederates in some design.  The attempt, whatever it may be, is to
come off, we will say, before one o'clock.  By some juggling of the
clocks it is quite possible that they may have got Scott Eccles to bed
earlier than he thought, but in any case it is likely that when Garcia
went out of his way to tell him that it was one it was really not more
than twelve.  If Garcia could do whatever he had to do and be back by
the hour mentioned he had evidently a powerful reply to any accusation.
Here was this irreproachable Englishman ready to swear in any court of
law that the accused was in the house all the time.  It was an
insurance against the worst."

"Yes, yes, I see that.  But how about the disappearance of the others?"

"I have not all my facts yet, but I do not think there are any
insuperable difficulties.  Still, it is an error to argue in front of
your data.  You find yourself insensibly twisting them round to fit
your theories."

"And the message?"

"How did it run?  'Our own colours, green and white.'  Sounds like
racing.  'Green open, white shut.'  That is clearly a signal.  'Main
stair, first corridor, seventh right, green baize.'  This is an
assignation.  We may find a jealous husband at the bottom of it all.
It was clearly a dangerous quest.  She would not have said 'Godspeed'
had it not been so.  'D'--that should be a guide."

"The man was a Spaniard.  I suggest that 'D' stands for Dolores, a
common female name in Spain."

"Good, Watson, very good--but quite inadmissable.  A Spaniard would
write to a Spaniard in Spanish.  The writer of this note is certainly
English.  Well, we can only possess our soul in patience until this
excellent inspector come back for us. Meanwhile we can thank our lucky
fate which has rescued us for a few short hours from the insufferable
fatigues of idleness."

