Project Gutenberg's The Adventure of Wisteria Lodge, by Arthur Conan Doyle

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net


Title: The Adventure of Wisteria Lodge

Author: Arthur Conan Doyle

Posting Date: October 23, 2008 [EBook #2343]
Release Date: October, 2000
[Last updated: March 30, 2011]

Language: English

Character set encoding: ASCII

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE ADVENTURE OF WISTERIA LODGE ***




Produced by David Brannan









The Adventure of Wisteria Lodge


by

Sir Arthur Conan Doyle




CONTENTS

  1. The Singular Experience of Mr. John Scott Eccles
  2. The Tiger of San Pedro




1.  The Singular Experience of Mr. John Scott Eccles



I find it recorded in my notebook that it was a bleak and windy day
towards the end of March in the year 1892.  Holmes had received a
telegram while we sat at our lunch, and he had scribbled a reply.  He
made no remark, but the matter remained in his thoughts, for he stood
in front of the fire afterwards with a thoughtful face, smoking his
pipe, and casting an occasional glance at the message.  Suddenly he
turned upon me with a mischievous twinkle in his eyes.

"I suppose, Watson, we must look upon you as a man of letters," said
he.  "How do you define the word 'grotesque'?"

"Strange--remarkable," I suggested.

He shook his head at my definition.

"There is surely something more than that," said he; "some underlying
suggestion of the tragic and the terrible.  If you cast your mind back
to some of those narratives with which you have afflicted a
long-suffering public, you will recognize how often the grotesque has
deepened into the criminal.  Think of that little affair of the
red-headed men.  That was grotesque enough in the outset, and yet it
ended in a desperate attempt at robbery.  Or, again, there was that
most grotesque affair of the five orange pips, which let straight to a
murderous conspiracy. The word puts me on the alert."

"Have you it there?" I asked.

He read the telegram aloud.

"Have just had most incredible and grotesque experience.  May I consult
you?

"Scott Eccles,
  "Post Office, Charing Cross."


"Man or woman?" I asked.

"Oh, man, of course. No woman would ever send a reply-paid telegram.
She would have come."

"Will you see him?"

"My dear Watson, you know how bored I have been since we locked up
Colonel Carruthers.  My mind is like a racing engine, tearing itself to
pieces because it is not connected up with the work for which it was
built.  Life is commonplace, the papers are sterile; audacity and
romance seem to have passed forever from the criminal world.  Can you
ask me, then, whether I am ready to look into any new problem, however
trivial it may prove?  But here, unless I am mistaken, is our client."

A measured step was heard upon the stairs, and a moment later a stout,
tall, gray-whiskered and solemnly respectable person was ushered into
the room.  His life history was written in his heavy features and
pompous manner.  From his spats to his gold-rimmed spectacles he was a
Conservative, a churchman, a good citizen, orthodox and conventional to
the last degree. But some amazing experience had disturbed his native
composure and left its traces in his bristling hair, his flushed, angry
cheeks, and his flurried, excited manner. He plunged instantly into his
business.

"I have had a most singular and unpleasant experience, Mr. Holmes,"
said he.  "Never in my life have I been placed in such a situation.  It
is most improper--most outrageous.  I must insist upon some
explanation."  He swelled and puffed in his anger.

"Pray sit down, Mr. Scott Eccles," said Holmes in a soothing voice.
"May I ask, in the first place, why you came to me at all?"

"Well, sir, it did not appear to be a matter which concerned the
police, and yet, when you have heard the facts, you must admit that I
could not leave it where it was.  Private detectives are a class with
whom I have absolutely no sympathy, but none the less, having heard
your name--"

"Quite so.  But, in the second place, why did you not come at once?"

Holmes glanced at his watch.

"It is a quarter-past two," he said.  "Your telegram was dispatched
about one.  But no one can glance at your toilet and attire without
seeing that your disturbance dates from the moment of your waking."

Our client smoothed down his unbrushed hair and felt his unshaven chin.

"You are right, Mr. Holmes.  I never gave a thought to my toilet. I was
only too glad to get out of such a house.  But I have been running
round making inquiries before I came to you.  I went to the house
agents, you know, and they said that Mr. Garcia's rent was paid up all
right and that everything was in order at Wisteria Lodge."

"Come, come, sir," said Holmes, laughing.  "You are like my friend, Dr.
Watson, who has a bad habit of telling his stories wrong end foremost.
Please arrange your thoughts and let me know, in their due sequence,
exactly what those events are which have sent you out unbrushed and
unkempt, with dress boots and waistcoat buttoned awry, in search of
advice and assistance."

Our client looked down with a rueful face at his own unconventional
appearance.

"I'm sure it must look very bad, Mr. Holmes, and I am not aware that in
my whole life such a thing has ever happened before.  But will tell you
the whole queer business, and when I have done so you will admit, I am
sure, that there has been enough to excuse me."

But his narrative was nipped in the bud.  There was a bustle outside,
and Mrs. Hudson opened the door to usher in two robust and
official-looking individuals, one of whom was well known to us as
Inspector Gregson of Scotland Yard, an energetic, gallant, and, within
his limitations, a capable officer.  He shook hands with Holmes and
introduced his comrade as Inspector Baynes, of the Surrey Constabulary.

