 Yes, yes, I see that.  But how about the disappearance of the others? 

 I have not all my facts yet, but I do not think there are any
insuperable difficulties.  Still, it is an error to argue in front of
your data.  You find yourself insensibly twisting them round to fit
your theories. 

 And the message? 

 How did it run?  'Our own colours, green and white.'  Sounds like
racing.  'Green open, white shut.'  That is clearly a signal.  'Main
stair, first corridor, seventh right, green baize.'  This is an
assignation.  We may find a jealous husband at the bottom of it all.
It was clearly a dangerous quest.  She would not have said 'Godspeed'
had it not been so.  'D'--that should be a guide. 

 The man was a Spaniard.  I suggest that 'D' stands for Dolores, a
common female name in Spain. 

 Good, Watson, very good--but quite inadmissable.  A Spaniard would
write to a Spaniard in Spanish.  The writer of this note is certainly
English.  Well, we can only possess our soul in patience until this
excellent inspector come back for us. Meanwhile we can thank our lucky
fate which has rescued us for a few short hours from the insufferable
fatigues of idleness. 

        *           *           *

An answer had arrived to Holmes's telegram before our Surrey officer
had returned.  Holmes read it and was about to place it in his notebook
when he caught a glimpse of my expectant face. He tossed it across with
a laugh.

 We are moving in exalted circles,  said he.

The telegram was a list of names and addresses:

Lord Harringby, The Dingle; Sir George Ffolliott, Oxshott Towers; Mr.
Hynes Hynes, J.P., Purdley Place; Mr. James Baker Williams, Forton Old
Hall; Mr. Henderson, High Gable; Rev. Joshua Stone, Nether Walsling.

 This is a very obvious way of limiting our field of operations,  said
Holmes.   No doubt Baynes, with his methodical mind, has already
adopted some similar plan. 

 I don't quite understand. 

 Well, my dear fellow, we have already arrived at the conclusion that
the message received by Garcia at dinner was an appointment or an
assignation.  Now, if the obvious reading of it is correct, and in
order to keep the tryst one has to ascend a main stair and seek the
seventh door in a corridor, it is perfectly clear that the house is a
very large one.  It is equally certain that this house cannot be more
than a mile or two from Oxshott, since Garcia was walking in that
direction and hoped, according to my reading of the facts, to be back
in Wisteria Lodge in time to avail himself of an alibi, which would
only be valid up to one o'clock.  As the number of large houses close
to Oxshott must be limited, I adopted the obvious method of sending to
the agents mentioned by Scott Eccles and obtaining a list of them.
Here they are in this telegram, and the other end of our tangled skein
must lie among them. 

        *           *           *

It was nearly six o'clock before we found ourselves in the pretty
Surrey village of Esher, with Inspector Baynes as our companion.

