Baynes flushed with pleasure.

 I've had a plain-clothes man waiting at the station all the week.
Wherever the High Gable folk go he will keep them in sight.  But he
must have been hard put to it when Miss Burnet broke away.  However,
your man picked her up, and it all ends well.  We can't arrest without
her evidence, that is clear, so the sooner we get a statement the
better. 

 Every minute she gets stronger,  said Holmes, glancing at the
governess.   But tell me, Baynes, who is this man Henderson? 

 Henderson,  the inspector answered,  is Don Murillo, once call the
Tiger of San Pedro. 

The Tiger of San Pedro!  The whole history of the man came back to me
in a flash.  He had made his name as the most lewd and bloodthirsty
tyrant that had ever governed any country with a pretence to
civilization.  Strong, fearless, and energetic, he had sufficient
virtue to enable him to impose his odious vices upon a cowering people
for ten or twelve years.  His name was a terror through all Central
America.  At the end of that time there was a universal rising against
him.  But he was as cunning as he was cruel, and at the first whisper
of coming trouble he had secretly conveyed his treasures aboard a ship
which was manned by devoted adherents.  It was an empty palace which
was stormed by the insurgents next day.  The dictator, his two
children, his secretary, and his wealth had all escaped them. From that
moment he had vanished from the world, and his identity had been a
frequent subject for comment in the European press.

 Yes, sir, Don Murillo, the Tiger of San Pedro,  said Baynes.  If you
look it up you will find that the San Pedro colours are green and
white, same as in the note, Mr. Holmes.  Henderson he called himself,
but I traced him back, Paris and Rome and Madrid to Barcelona, where
his ship came in in '86.  They've been looking for him all the time for
their revenge, but it is only now that they have begun to find him out. 

 They discovered him a year ago,  said Miss Burnet, who had sat up and
was now intently following the conversation.   Once already his life
has been attempted, but some evil spirit shielded him.  Now, again, it
is the noble, chivalrous Garcia who has fallen, while the monster goes
safe.  But another will come, and yet another, until some day justice
will be done; that is as certain as the rise of to-morrow's sun.   Her
thin hands clenched, and her worn face blanched with the passion of her
hatred.

 But how come you into this matter, Miss Burnet?  asked Holmes.  How
can an English lady join in such a murderous affair? 

 I join in it because there is no other way in the world by which
justice can be gained.  What does the law of England care for the
rivers of blood shed years ago in San Pedro, or for the shipload of
treasure which this man has stolen?  To you they are like crimes
committed in some other planet.  But _we_ know.  We have learned the
truth in sorrow and in suffering.  To us there is no fiend in hell like
Juan Murillo, and no peace in life while his victims still cry for
vengeance. 

