    THE OXSHOTT MYSTERY
    A SOLUTION
    ARREST OF SUPPOSED ASSASSIN

Holmes sprang in his chair as if he had been stung when I read the
headlines.

 By Jove!  he cried.   You don't mean that Baynes has got him? 

 Apparently,  said I as I read the following report:

 Great excitement was caused in Esher and the neighbouring district
when it was learned late last night that an arrest had been effected in
connection with the Oxshott murder.  It will be remembered that Mr.
Garcia, of Wisteria Lodge, was found dead on Oxshott Common, his body
showing signs of extreme violence, and that on the same night his
servant and his cook fled, which appeared to show their participation
in the crime.  It was suggested, but never proved, that the deceased
gentleman may have had valuables in the house, and that their
abstraction was the motive of the crime.  Every effort was made by
Inspector Baynes, who has the case in hand, to ascertain the hiding
place of the fugitives, and he had good reason to believe that they had
not gone far but were lurking in some retreat which had been already
prepared.  It was certain from the first, however, that they would
eventually be detected, as the cook, from the evidence of one or two
tradespeople who have caught a glimpse of him through the window, was a
man of most remarkable appearance--being a huge and hideous mulatto,
with yellowish features of a pronounced negroid type.  This man has
been seen since the crime, for he was detected and pursued by Constable
Walters on the same evening, when he had the audacity to revisit
Wisteria Lodge.  Inspector Baynes, considering that such a visit must
have some purpose in view and was likely, therefore, to be repeated,
abandoned the house but left an ambuscade in the shrubbery.  The man
walked into the trap and was captured last night after a struggle in
which Constable Downing was badly bitten by the savage.  We understand
that when the prisoner is brought before the magistrates a remand will be
applied for by the police, and that great developments are hoped from
his capture. 

 Really we must see Baynes at once,  cried Holmes, picking up his hat.
 We will just catch him before he starts.   We hurried down the village
street and found, as we had expected, that the inspector was just
leaving his lodgings.

 You've seen the paper, Mr. Holmes?  he asked, holding one out to us.

 Yes, Baynes, I've seen it.  Pray don't think it a liberty if I give
you a word of friendly warning. 

 Of warning, Mr. Holmes? 

 I have looked into this case with some care, and I am not convinced
that you are on the right lines.  I don't want you to commit yourself
too far unless you are sure. 

 You're very kind, Mr. Holmes. 

 I assure you I speak for your good. 

It seemed to me that something like a wink quivered for an instant over
one of Mr. Baynes's tiny eyes.

 We agreed to work on our own lines, Mr. Holmes.  That's what I am
doing. 

 Oh, very good,  said Holmes.   Don't blame me. 

 No, sir; I believe you mean well by me.  But we all have our own
systems, Mr. Holmes.  You have yours, and maybe I have mine. 

