 No doubt,  said Holmes,  he was as you say. I have heard that he was
atrocious.  But how are you affected? 

 I will tell you it all. This villain's policy was to murder, on one
pretext or another, every man who showed such promise that he might in
time come to be a dangerous rival.  My husband--yes, my real name is
Signora Victor Durando--was the San Pedro minister in London.  He met
me and married me there.  A nobler man never lived upon earth.
Unhappily, Murillo heard of his excellence, recalled him on some
pretext, and had him shot.  With a premonition of his fate he had
refused to take me with him.  His estates were confiscated, and I was
left with a pittance and a broken heart.

 Then came the downfall of the tyrant.  He escaped as you have just
described.  But the many whose lives he had ruined, whose nearest and
dearest had suffered torture and death at his hands, would not let the
matter rest.  They banded themselves into a society which should never
be dissolved until the work was done. It was my part after we had
discovered in the transformed Henderson the fallen despot, to attach
myself to his household and keep the others in touch with his
movements.  This I was able to do by securing the position of governess
in his family.  He little knew that the woman who faced him at every
meal was the woman whose husband he had hurried at an hour's notice
into eternity.  I smiled on him, did my duty to his children, and bided
my time.  An attempt was made in Paris and failed.  We zig-zagged
swiftly here and there over Europe to throw off the pursuers and
finally returned to this house, which he had taken upon his first
arrival in England.

 But here also the ministers of justice were waiting.  Knowing that he
would return there, Garcia, who is the son of the former highest
dignitary in San Pedro, was waiting with two trusty companions of
humble station, all three fired with the same reasons for revenge. He
could do little during the day, for Murillo took every precaution and
never went out save with his satellite Lucas, or Lopez as he was known
in the days of his greatness.  At night, however, he slept alone, and
the avenger might find him.  On a certain evening, which had been
prearranged, I sent my friend final instructions, for the man was
forever on the alert and continually changed his room.  I was to see
that the doors were open and the signal of a green or white light in a
window which faced the drive was to give notice if all was safe or if
the attempt had better be postponed.

 But everything went wrong with us.  In some way I had excited the
suspicion of Lopez, the secretary.  He crept up behind me and sprang
upon me just as I had finished the note.  He and his master dragged me
to my room and held judgment upon me as a convicted traitress.  Then
and there they would have plunged their knives into me could they have
seen how to escape the consequences of the deed.  Finally, after much
debate, they concluded that my murder was too dangerous.  But they
determined to get rid forever of Garcia.  They had gagged me, and
Murillo twisted my arm round until I gave him the address.  I swear
that he might have twisted it off had I understood what it would mean
to Garcia.  Lopez addressed the note which I had written, sealed it
with his sleeve-link, and sent it by the hand of the servant, Jose.
How they murdered him I do not know, save that it was Murillo's hand
who struck him down, for Lopez had remained to guard me.  I believe he
must have waited among the gorse bushes through which the path winds
and struck him down as he passed. At first they were of a mind to let
him enter the house and to kill him as a detected burglar; but they
argued that if they were mixed up in an inquiry their own identity
would at once be publicly disclosed and they would be open to further
attacks. With the death of Garcia, the pursuit might cease, since such
a death might frighten others from the task.

