Holmes and I had taken things for the night, and found comfortable
quarters at the Bull.  Finally we set out in the company of the
detective on our visit to Wisteria Lodge.  It was a cold, dark March
evening, with a sharp wind and a fine rain beating upon our faces, a
fit setting for the wild common over which our road passed and the
tragic goal to which it led us.




2.  The Tiger of San Pedro


A cold and melancholy walk of a couple of miles brought us to a high
wooden gate, which opened into a gloomy avenue of chestnuts. The curved
and shadowed drive led us to a low, dark house, pitch-black against a
slate-coloured sky. From the front window upon the left of the door
there peeped a glimmer of a feeble light.

 There's a constable in possession,  said Baynes.   I'll knock at the
window.   He stepped across the grass plot and tapped with his hand on
the pane.  Through the fogged glass I dimly saw a man spring up from a
chair beside the fire, and heard a sharp cry from within the room.  An
instant later a white-faced, hard-breathing policeman had opened the
door, the candle wavering in his trembling hand.

 What's the matter, Walters?  asked Baynes sharply.

The man mopped his forehead with his handkerchief and gave a long sigh
of relief.

 I am glad you have come, sir.  It has been a long evening, and I don't
think my nerve is as good as it was. 

 Your nerve, Walters?  I should not have thought you had a nerve in
your body. 

 Well, sir, it's this lonely, silent house and the queer thing in the
kitchen.  Then when you tapped at the window I thought it had come
again. 

 That what had come again? 

 The devil, sir, for all I know.  It was at the window. 

 What was at the window, and when? 

 It was just about two hours ago.  The light was just fading.  I was
sitting reading in the chair.  I don't know what made me look up, but
there was a face looking in at me through the lower pane. Lord, sir,
what a face it was!  I'll see it in my dreams. 

 Tut, tut, Walters.  This is not talk for a police-constable. 

 I know, sir, I know; but it shook me, sir, and there's no use to deny
it.  It wasn't black, sir, nor was it white, nor any colour that I know
but a kind of queer shade like clay with a splash of milk in it.  Then
there was the size of it--it was twice yours, sir.  And the look of
it--the great staring goggle eyes, and the line of white teeth like a
hungry beast.  I tell you, sir, I couldn't move a finger, nor get my
breath, till it whisked away and was gone.  Out I ran and through the
shrubbery, but thank God there was no one there. 

 If I didn't know you were a good man, Walters, I should put a black
mark against you for this.  If it were the devil himself a constable on
duty should never thank God that he could not lay his hands upon him.
I suppose the whole thing is not a vision and a touch of nerves? 

 That, at least, is very easily settled,  said Holmes, lighting his
little pocket lantern.   Yes,  he reported, after a short examination
of the grass bed,  a number twelve shoe, I should say.  If he was all
on the same scale as his foot he must certainly have been a giant. 

