
1.  The Singular Experience of Mr. John Scott Eccles



I find it recorded in my notebook that it was a bleak and windy day
towards the end of March in the year 1892.  Holmes had received a
telegram while we sat at our lunch, and he had scribbled a reply.  He
made no remark, but the matter remained in his thoughts, for he stood
in front of the fire afterwards with a thoughtful face, smoking his
pipe, and casting an occasional glance at the message.  Suddenly he
turned upon me with a mischievous twinkle in his eyes.

 I suppose, Watson, we must look upon you as a man of letters,  said
he.   How do you define the word 'grotesque'? 

 Strange--remarkable,  I suggested.

He shook his head at my definition.

 There is surely something more than that,  said he;  some underlying
suggestion of the tragic and the terrible.  If you cast your mind back
to some of those narratives with which you have afflicted a
long-suffering public, you will recognize how often the grotesque has
deepened into the criminal.  Think of that little affair of the
red-headed men.  That was grotesque enough in the outset, and yet it
ended in a desperate attempt at robbery.  Or, again, there was that
most grotesque affair of the five orange pips, which let straight to a
murderous conspiracy. The word puts me on the alert. 

 Have you it there?  I asked.

He read the telegram aloud.

 Have just had most incredible and grotesque experience.  May I consult
you?

 Scott Eccles,
   Post Office, Charing Cross. 


 Man or woman?  I asked.

 Oh, man, of course. No woman would ever send a reply-paid telegram.
She would have come. 

 Will you see him? 

 My dear Watson, you know how bored I have been since we locked up
Colonel Carruthers.  My mind is like a racing engine, tearing itself to
pieces because it is not connected up with the work for which it was
built.  Life is commonplace, the papers are sterile; audacity and
romance seem to have passed forever from the criminal world.  Can you
ask me, then, whether I am ready to look into any new problem, however
trivial it may prove?  But here, unless I am mistaken, is our client. 

A measured step was heard upon the stairs, and a moment later a stout,
tall, gray-whiskered and solemnly respectable person was ushered into
the room.  His life history was written in his heavy features and
pompous manner.  From his spats to his gold-rimmed spectacles he was a
Conservative, a churchman, a good citizen, orthodox and conventional to
the last degree. But some amazing experience had disturbed his native
composure and left its traces in his bristling hair, his flushed, angry
cheeks, and his flurried, excited manner. He plunged instantly into his
business.

 I have had a most singular and unpleasant experience, Mr. Holmes, 
said he.   Never in my life have I been placed in such a situation.  It
is most improper--most outrageous.  I must insist upon some
explanation.   He swelled and puffed in his anger.

 Pray sit down, Mr. Scott Eccles,  said Holmes in a soothing voice.
 May I ask, in the first place, why you came to me at all? 

