 But the crime? 

 Well, taken with the disappearance of the man's companions, I should
say that they were in some way concerned in the murder and had fled
from justice. 

 That is certainly a possible point of view.  On the face of it you
must admit, however, that it is very strange that his two servants
should have been in a conspiracy against him and should have attacked
him on the one night when he had a guest.  They had him alone at their
mercy every other night in the week. 

 Then why did they fly? 

 Quite so.  Why did they fly?  There is a big fact.  Another big fact
is the remarkable experience of our client, Scott Eccles. Now, my dear
Watson, is it beyond the limits of human ingenuity to furnish an
explanation which would cover both of these big facts?  If it were one
which would also admit of the mysterious note with its very curious
phraseology, why, then it would be worth accepting as a temporary
hypothesis.  If the fresh facts which come to our knowledge all fit
themselves into the scheme, then our hypothesis may gradually become a
solution. 

 But what is our hypothesis? 

Holmes leaned back in his chair with half-closed eyes.

 You must admit, my dear Watson, that the idea of a joke is impossible.
There were grave events afoot, as the sequel showed, and the coaxing of
Scott Eccles to Wisteria Lodge had some connection with them. 

 But what possible connection? 

 Let us take it link by link.  There is, on the face of it, something
unnatural about this strange and sudden friendship between the young
Spaniard and Scott Eccles.  It was the former who forced the pace.  He
called upon Eccles at the other end of London on the very day after he
first met him, and he kept in close touch with him until he got him
down to Esher.  Now, what did he want with Eccles?  What could Eccles
supply?  I see no charm in the man.  He is not particularly
intelligent--not a man likely to be congenial to a quick-witted Latin.
Why, then, was he picked out from all the other people whom Garcia met
as particularly suited to his purpose?  Has he any one outstanding
quality?  I say that he has.  He is the very type of conventional
British respectability, and the very man as a witness to impress
another Briton.  You saw yourself how neither of the inspectors dreamed
of questioning his statement, extraordinary as it was. 

 But what was he to witness? 

 Nothing, as things turned out, but everything had they gone another
way.  That is how I read the matter. 

 I see, he might have proved an alibi. 

 Exactly, my dear Watson; he might have proved an alibi.  We will
suppose, for argument's sake, that the household of Wisteria Lodge are
confederates in some design.  The attempt, whatever it may be, is to
come off, we will say, before one o'clock.  By some juggling of the
clocks it is quite possible that they may have got Scott Eccles to bed
earlier than he thought, but in any case it is likely that when Garcia
went out of his way to tell him that it was one it was really not more
than twelve.  If Garcia could do whatever he had to do and be back by
the hour mentioned he had evidently a powerful reply to any accusation.
Here was this irreproachable Englishman ready to swear in any court of
law that the accused was in the house all the time.  It was an
insurance against the worst. 

