THE DOGS AND THE HIDES


Once upon a time a number of Dogs, who were famished with hunger, saw
some Hides steeping in a river, but couldn't get at them because the
water was too deep. So they put their heads together, and decided to
drink away at the river till it was shallow enough for them to reach
the Hides. But long before that happened they burst themselves with
drinking.




THE LION, THE FOX, AND THE ASS


A Lion, a Fox, and an Ass went out hunting together. They had soon
taken a large booty, which the Lion requested the Ass to divide
between them. The Ass divided it all into three equal parts, and
modestly begged the others to take their choice; at which the Lion,
bursting with fury, sprang upon the Ass and tore him to pieces.
Then, glaring at the Fox, he bade him make a fresh division. The Fox
gathered almost the whole in one great heap for the Lion's share,
leaving only the smallest possible morsel for himself. "My dear
friend," said the Lion, "how did you get the knack of it so well?" The
Fox replied, "Me? Oh, I took a lesson from the Ass."

    Happy is he who learns from the misfortunes of others.




THE FOWLER, THE PARTRIDGE, AND THE COCK


One day, as a Fowler was sitting down to a scanty supper of herbs and
bread, a friend dropped in unexpectedly. The larder was empty; so he
went out and caught a tame Partridge, which he kept as a decoy, and
was about to wring her neck when she cried, "Surely you won't kill me?
Why, what will you do without me next time you go fowling? How will
you get the birds to come to your nets?" He let her go at this, and
went to his hen-house, where he had a plump young Cock. When the Cock
saw what he was after, he too pleaded for his life, and said, "If you
kill me, how will you know the time of night? and who will wake you up
in the morning when it is time to get to work?" The Fowler, however,
replied, "You are useful for telling the time, I know; but, for all
that, I can't send my friend supperless to bed." And therewith he
caught him and wrung his neck.
