Some of them wanted it to be an honest ship and others were in favour
of keeping it a pirate; but the captain treated them as dogs, and they
dared not express their wishes to him even in a round robin. Instant
obedience was the only safe thing. Slightly got a dozen for looking
perplexed when told to take soundings. The general feeling was that
Peter was honest just now to lull Wendy's suspicions, but that there
might be a change when the new suit was ready, which, against her will,
she was making for him out of some of Hook's wickedest garments. It was
afterwards whispered among them that on the first night he wore this
suit he sat long in the cabin with Hook's cigar-holder in his mouth and
one hand clenched, all but for the forefinger, which he bent and held
threateningly aloft like a hook.

Instead of watching the ship, however, we must now return to that
desolate home from which three of our characters had taken heartless
flight so long ago. It seems a shame to have neglected No. 14 all this
time; and yet we may be sure that Mrs. Darling does not blame us. If we
had returned sooner to look with sorrowful sympathy at her, she would
probably have cried, "Don't be silly; what do I matter? Do go back and
keep an eye on the children." So long as mothers are like this their
children will take advantage of them; and they may lay to that.

Even now we venture into that familiar nursery only because its lawful
occupants are on their way home; we are merely hurrying on in advance
of them to see that their beds are properly aired and that Mr. and Mrs.
Darling do not go out for the evening. We are no more than servants.
Why on earth should their beds be properly aired, seeing that they left
them in such a thankless hurry? Would it not serve them jolly well
right if they came back and found that their parents were spending the
week-end in the country? It would be the moral lesson they have been in
need of ever since we met them; but if we contrived things in this way
Mrs. Darling would never forgive us.

One thing I should like to do immensely, and that is to tell her, in
the way authors have, that the children are coming back, that indeed
they will be here on Thursday week. This would spoil so completely the
surprise to which Wendy and John and Michael are looking forward. They
have been planning it out on the ship: mother's rapture, father's shout
of joy, Nana's leap through the air to embrace them first, when what
they ought to be prepared for is a good hiding. How delicious to spoil
it all by breaking the news in advance; so that when they enter grandly
Mrs. Darling may not even offer Wendy her mouth, and Mr. Darling may
exclaim pettishly, "Dash it all, here are those boys again." However,
we should get no thanks even for this. We are beginning to know Mrs.
Darling by this time, and may be sure that she would upbraid us for
depriving the children of their little pleasure.

"But, my dear madam, it is ten days till Thursday week; so that by
telling you what's what, we can save you ten days of unhappiness."

