"What do we see now?"

"I don't think I see anything to-night," says Wendy, with a feeling
that if Nana were here she would object to further conversation.

"Yes, you do," says Jane, "you see when you were a little girl."

"That is a long time ago, sweetheart," says Wendy. "Ah me, how time
flies!"

"Does it fly," asks the artful child, "the way you flew when you were a
little girl?"

"The way I flew? Do you know, Jane, I sometimes wonder whether I ever
did really fly."

"Yes, you did."

"The dear old days when I could fly!"

"Why can't you fly now, mother?"

"Because I am grown up, dearest. When people grow up they forget the
way."

"Why do they forget the way?"

"Because they are no longer gay and innocent and heartless. It is only
the gay and innocent and heartless who can fly."

"What is gay and innocent and heartless? I do wish I were gay and
innocent and heartless."

Or perhaps Wendy admits she does see something.

"I do believe," she says, "that it is this nursery."

"I do believe it is," says Jane. "Go on."

They are now embarked on the great adventure of the night when Peter
flew in looking for his shadow.

"The foolish fellow," says Wendy, "tried to stick it on with soap, and
when he could not he cried, and that woke me, and I sewed it on for
him."

"You have missed a bit," interrupts Jane, who now knows the story
better than her mother. "When you saw him sitting on the floor crying,
what did you say?"

"I sat up in bed and I said, ‘Boy, why are you crying?'"

"Yes, that was it," says Jane, with a big breath.

"And then he flew us all away to the Neverland and the fairies and the
pirates and the redskins and the mermaids' lagoon, and the home under
the ground, and the little house."

"Yes! which did you like best of all?"

"I think I liked the home under the ground best of all."

"Yes, so do I. What was the last thing Peter ever said to you?"

"The last thing he ever said to me was, ‘Just always be waiting for me,
and then some night you will hear me crowing.'"

"Yes."

"But, alas, he forgot all about me," Wendy said it with a smile. She
was as grown up as that.

"What did his crow sound like?" Jane asked one evening.

"It was like this," Wendy said, trying to imitate Peter's crow.

"No, it wasn't," Jane said gravely, "it was like this;" and she did it
ever so much better than her mother.

Wendy was a little startled. "My darling, how can you know?"

"I often hear it when I am sleeping," Jane said.

"Ah yes, many girls hear it when they are sleeping, but I was the only
one who heard it awake."

"Lucky you," said Jane.

And then one night came the tragedy. It was the spring of the year, and
the story had been told for the night, and Jane was now asleep in her
bed. Wendy was sitting on the floor, very close to the fire, so as to
see to darn, for there was no other light in the nursery; and while she
sat darning she heard a crow. Then the window blew open as of old, and
Peter dropped in on the floor.

He was exactly the same as ever, and Wendy saw at once that he still
had all his first teeth.

